So using the expression language is very straightforward.
The syntax for it simply dollar, brace, and then the expression within the brace.
The first thing we'll see with the language is that we
can use it directly within the page.
So for example, something like this, and we just say dollar,
user.name, which it just outputs some value into the page.
Inside the expression language, user would be the name of a bean,
and name would be a property within that bean.
So in a previous example, to display the name of a user within the page,
we had to reach into the request object using Java code,
and then using a Java expression to grab the name of the user
from the bean and display that on the page.
Using the expression language, we can minimize this code.
So we can replace the user code,
and we can see how that works by looking in the browser.
So here if I browse the application, which is on localhost:8090/app/ work.do,
and we see Welcome Kevin, which is what we had previously.
If we go back to the application,
what we can now do is remove the Java from the application.
So I can remove this entire section, and then here,
rather than using less than percent equals,
I can use the expression language, and as we saw,
we used that with dollar brace, we close it off with a closing brace,
and rather than using user.getName, we simply say,
user.name.
If we save this and then go back to the browser,
and I refresh the browser, we end up with the same result.
Just to prove that is working, if I take out the user.name here,
and save and refresh, then the name disappears altogether.
So using the expression language in place of Java is much more simpler.
What you'll note here is that we don't need to
specify the scope we get the bean in.
The expression language looks in the request scope,
the session scope, and in the global scope,
that is the ServletContext, to look for any beans with that name.
Within an application,
we sometimes want to change styles of pages depending on which
part of the application the user's within,
or maybe depending on who that user is.
So at the moment if we browse to the page, the page is purely white.
There's no indication to the user here what they should be doing.
So we've changed the application here so that we now use a class for that page,
and if I go back to the application and refresh the page,
we can see that the background now comes up in the coral pink.
Now it may be that we want to do this dynamically.
So to do that, rather than hard coding the name of the class here,
we'd like to use an expression to get that class name.
So what we need to do is to create a bean,
use that bean to store the name of the class you want to use,
and then place that bean somewhere we can get to it,
and then add an expression to the page.
So we've created a bean here called ApplicationSettings.java,
and this has a property called formCssClass,
and we can use that property within the page itself.
Somewhere we need to create an instance of that bean and
store that bean somewhere we can access it,
and we can do that within the servlet itself.
Now in this case, rather than storing the bean inside the request object,
as we did with the user bean,
we can store the bean inside the ServletContext and
make the bean globally available.
So the code will look like something like this.
We're creating a new ApplicationSettings object,
we call the setFormCssClass method on this,
and pass in the class name of blueUser,
and then we store that bean inside the
ServletContext and give it a name of a-p-p,
or app, for ApplicationSettings.
Back in the page, rather than saying class = redUser,
we can say class = dollar brace, so we can use an expression,
and inside here we take the name of the bean,
which was app, and the name of the property on that bean,
which is formCssClass.
So again, no, we don't need to say get formCssClass,
it works that out for itself, and also in this case,
unlike the user bean, which is used here,
that user bean was in request scope,
this bean is in part is in the ServletContext,
that's the global scope.
So if we deploy this application and we go to the browser,
what we should see, we should see this class being picked up from formCssClass,
we are setting CssClass to be blueUser,
and blueUser in our CSS page has a background color of light blue.
So if we go to the browser and refresh the page,
sure enough,
we are now simply setting the attributes from a bean using the expression language.